in this video,
we'll look at how you create attributes in excess.
Lt Starfleet's so that's going to fold it five,
Creating new attributes and an open up branches that xsl.
So we've completed the creation of all the child elements of our person element.
So here we've got xsl element in Amy Was Person and then inside it,
we've got to stop I d element and then all of the elements,
with the exception of staff I.
D and photo,
that's the elements taken care off,
and now we want to create three attributes Roll Branch and Department.
So let's start with the role attributes.
The role will simply be taken straight from the input document,
and it will either be branch manager,
head or staff member in a similar way.
Branch will be taken from the name attribute of the branch element and in a similar way,
department will be taken from the name attributes off department.
So that's not great.
Our first attributes the attributes,
of course,
go inside the element to which they're related,
and that element is person.
Let's just put a couple of spaces into highlight.
What's inside?
What,
so here we've got the element person and inside it we haven't element cold stuff I d.
And then we use an xsl copy all to generate all of the other elements.
So let's now place out child attributes in here.
And as you can probably guess,
justus,
you have xsl element.
The created elements you have xsl attribute,
creating attributes,
name equals role,
and then you can use xsl valuable to specify what you want to go inside.
That attribute on the role will simply be the name of the parent element branch manager,
head or staff member.
So although it will be the parent of role when we put our experts statement,
our starting point is always the context that set at the template level.
So in other words,
we want the name of the element.
At that context,
we don't need to live down the child access to find it.
We're already at the right position,
so we use name and then in parentheses.
We want to say self Cohen Coulombe,
which has the convenient short cut dot and we think it's a good idea to get rid of the
underscores and perhaps replace them with spaces.
We can use the equivalent of excels.
Substitute function,
which is translate,
works in a similar way.
So translate the original string,
which is provided by the name function comma and then in single quotes.
What do you want to get rid off?
What you want to replace younger school comma and in single quotes space and then the
clothes in parenthesis.
That's our first attribute.
Let's move on to the branch and let's just open up branches that XML remind ourselves where
the name of the bronze lives.
So the name of the bronze is an attributes of the branch element,
but the relationship of that element to the elements that we've combined into one notes
that is different.
So the branch Manager name is an attribute of the parents.
Where is when we go down to head and start member?
We've got a mover,
something like four or five levels.
We've got to go to staff department departments and then to branch,
so the parent access is rather inconvenient on this occasion.
Fortunately,
however,
experts also has an ancestor axis,
so with the ancestor access,
it doesn't matter how many levels up you have to go.
You're still talking about an ancestor so branch is an ancestor of branch manager,
and it's also an ancestor of head and Start member.
The number of levels you have to go up to get from one element to the next becomes
irrelevant.
So let's go back to our style sheet.
So value off can now use ancestor,
and this time there is no convenient shortcut,
so you have to type it longhand,
As you probably remember.
When you type the Axis longhand,
it finishes with two Coghlan's.
So we go along the ancestor access and look the branch.
That's the first location step.
So we finished with a forward slash and move on to the next location step and the next
access.
And,
of course,
having got to brunch,
the next access is the attributes.
Access have a long hand for that is a tribute coat on colon.
But this time there is a convenient shortcut,
which is the at sign.
So we simply say at name.
So,
just to recap,
we've got to location steps,
the first using the ancestor access to move up an indeterminate number of levels.
Then the second lives along the attribute access to find the attribute Cool name.
So that's two of our three attributes completed,
The 3rd 1 is a bit more tricky.
We want to find the department of all of these people.
In the case of head and Staff member,
that's no problem.
They both have an ancestor called Department,
which has an attribute called name detail in the name of each department.
But Branch manager is on the level above departments.
So in other words,
the branch manager is not the descendant at any particular department will probably want to
put something like,
not applicable or if in our organizational branch managers were part of the administration
department,
we would put administration for all of them.
But the point is,
we want to process Bronze manages differently to the way in which we process head and staff
member elements.
So for that,
we'll need a conditional.
We'll talk about conditional in the next video.
So for the moment will stay with these two attributes,
roll on branch and just verify that they're working correctly.
So let's say that changes I live across to excel a man just use file open to check whether
it's all working.
So number five.
Let's open up branches applying to style sheets on generates our XML table,
and here we can see we've got our role branch manager for the first head for the second and
then start member until the department changes when we have another head and so on.
So everything's is it should be.
And if we go across the developer and look at the XML map,
you can see there's a subtle difference between the icon next to roll in Branch and the
icon next to all of the others.
So we have an attribute icon next to Roll and Brandt,
and we have an element icon,
which is slightly lighter in color next to all of the others.
And as we saw before,
we have our people and person elements replacing the original branches,
etcetera.
So so far,
so good.
And in the next video,
we'll move on to look at the use of conditional statements